# Event Handling

Every Gui's responsibility is to deal with events and to handle the users creation of them. Old-skul was the switch we relied upon for doing an action. With object oriented programming we have two more complex ways to deal with ways to distribute information between applications.

#### Java style event handlers

We attach these to the objects and bind them to callback functions/methods. The object receives the event handler, and the event handler triggers the function.

#### Predetermined method name assignments for handles

WE may modify how a particular class responds to a particular event. WE derive the class an then overload the method.

## wxPython Way handling situations

wxPython combines both situations above- define event handlers along with deriving classes to implement new behaviors. From some of the forum reading I have noticed some inconsistencies with the behavior of menu items, particularly with Mac.

#### self.Bind(wx.EVT_SOMETHING, ACallable)

The .Bind above says that when the SOMETHING event is delivered to this window (self), and it comes from any child window or itself, then call ACallable. self must be a class derived from a wxPython window (e.g. a Button, a Dialog, a Frame), and "ACallable" can be any function, normally we just make it a function within the above-mentioned class.

#### self.Bind(wx.EVT_SOMETHING, ACallable, srcWin)

Alternatively when a SOMETHING event is generated by "srcWin", and it comes up through the window hierarchy to this Window (self), then call ACallable.

### Caveats

Some events can only be caught in the Window in which they are generated (which means the second form then won't do anything), so it is best to use the first form whenever possible, which would be basically everywhere except for menu items, which don't have a Bind() method.